# 05_Devops_Infrastructure_as_a_Service_Basics
This repository is created to practically show how to setup and configure a server and deploye Java application on it. 

- Virtual machine can be created on Digital Ocean Platform - `https://cloud.digitalocean.com/`
Once logged in to Digital Ocean, you can create a droplet and connect to virtual machine by SSH key. 
SSH key can be generated by ssh-keygen command in the home directory. Public key and private key are saved in the .ssh directory.
Public key can be copied and saved as in my digital ocean account as a new ssh key and used for authentication before connecting to server. \ 

- I created Ubuntu 24.4 server and virtual machine got an IP address which can be used to ssh onto this machine or for secured copy protocol. 

- In the Digital Ocean-Networking-Firewalls the setup of firewall can be created, SSH on port 22 can be allowed for my IP address and firewall can be assigned to a new virtual machine.\ 

- In order to deploy Java Application on the virtual machines, java must be installed first. 
*apt get*
*apt install openjdk-17-jre-headless*

- on the local machine the artifact of java application in gradle build system the following command can be started:
*gradle build*
inside `build` directory a jar file is created. 

- jar file can be copied to root directory on virtual machine:
*scp ./build/libs/java-react-example.jar root@64.226.76.199:/root*

- application can be started on the virtual machine: 
*java -jar java-react-example.jar*
- in order to access the application from the browser, the firewall setup must be adjuste. Port 7071 must be allowed for TCP protocol. 
Application is accessible by entering IP address and port number to internet browser.

- Best practice is to create a user running the application that has only the permission to run this application. 
*adduser java-app* OR *useradd -m java-app* and set password by: *passwd java-app*
add user to sudo group to use root privileges: *usermod -aG sudo java-app*

- to ssh to virtual machine as non-root user called java-app, I need to create .ssh folder and file name "authorized_keys" containing public key of my local machine.
*mkdir .ssh*
*sudo vim ./.ssh/authorized_keys*
